
Colin Birdwell

Tomball, Texas 77375
Phone: (713) 542-4597
E-Mail: web.by.birdwell@gmail.com

Links

            http://www.webbybirdwell.com/

            https://github.com/C-Birdwell

Skills

HTML: Expert
CSS: Expert
Javascript: Expert
React: Intermediate
React-Native: Advanced
Redux: Intermediate
Axios: Intermediate
Jquery: Advanced
ModX: Expert
Node.js: Intermediate
Version Control: Advanced
UI/UX: Advanced
Adobe Photoshop/Illustrator: Beginner
Npm: Intermediate
Gulp: Intermediate
ECommerce: Intermediate
Hubspot: Advanced

Big Commerce: Advanced
Bootstrap: Expert
Flexbox: Intermediate
CSS Grid: Intermediate
Formstack: Advanced
Campaign Monitor, MailChimp, etc., Custom Email Template creation: Advanced
Bitbucket: Advanced
Github: Advanced
Yarn: Intermediate
Visual Studio: Intermediate
Git: Intermediate
Sass: Advanced
GraphQL: Beginner
MongoDB: Beginner
Design patterns and principles
UI improvements

Professional Summary

Determined Web Developer offering more than five years of experience. Colin has worked with online and digital businesses both as a web & app developer, in the industries of private agencies, online commerce, local government, utilities, and the financial banking. Bringing more than five years of experience, Colin can handle your front end coding needs. As an App Developer, he built the front end of a personal banking debit card app while using a in house api to update the backend. Colin incorporated concepts of templating components, extensive visual animations, and haptic feedback. As a Web Developer, his skills include working knowledge of several various web based languages, User Experience & User Interface design (UX/UI), online interactions, web design, and working within small, innovative teams of developers in an Agile/Scrum setting. Colin also has extensive knowledge on IT operations, middleware experience, and some full-stack experience with things like Node.js, Postgres, GrapshQL, Prisma, and MongoDB. Self-motivated Web Developer with high level of experience working on multiple projects. Passionate and hardworking with penchant for meeting deadlines. Interested in role with company promoting best practices and offering diverse customer projects.

Work History

January 2014 to Current
Freelance Web Developer Houston, TX
Web Developer    
As a freelance web developer, I help smaller clients with a variety of web-related needs:

Created and maintained websites
General consultation for project development
Social media and SEO tools into development integration
Creating full-stack applications consisting of React/ GraphQL /Postgres

April 2018 to July 2019
Payment Data Systems Inc. San Antonio, TX
Front End Developer    
Was main lead front end developer on rebuilding their proprietary financial debit card banking app white label template Akimbo onto a react-native platform.   App requirements included:

Heavy React-Native development
Animating visual components with haptic feedback
Card/Bank to card transfers
Scheduling recurring transfers (utilizing Moment.js to calculate future dates to pick from)
Using keychain to store secure login information & touch id biometrics
Utilizing environmental files for on boarding clients to utilize their branding for templating purposes
Assisting and monitored digital art assets for maintaining consistent brand guidelines

January 2017 to February 2018
San Antonio Water System Via Sistema Technologies San Antonio, Texas
Web Developer Consultant    
The main project worked was a customer portal that handled water bill account needs.

Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices
Coordinating responsive web development with project leads
Advised on UX/UI related matters
Integrated web technologies with legacy systems

September 2014 to June 2016
Signet Interactive Houston, TX
Web Developer    

Tested websites and performed troubleshooting prior to deployment.
Created eye catching and functional digital design concepts across various platforms to strengthen client's brand and identity.
Developed sites to be compatible with top browsers, including Firefox, Chrome and Safari.
Created site layout and user interface using HTML and CSS practices.

Education

2009 University of Houston Houston
Bachelor of Arts  
